Advertisement OCT. 8, 2017  Sandra Emily Kreis and Stephen Cook Lacey were married Oct. 7 at the lagoon at the Boston Public Garden. Michael Kolodziej, a friend of the couple, officiated, having received permission from the state of Massachusetts. The bride, 35, is the director of the Lab of Forward Thinking for North America at John Hancock in Boston, where she works with teams in Boston and Toronto on artificial intelligence and blockchain technology, which is a way for a network of computers to record and authenticate transactions without relying on a central authority. She is also a visiting lecturer at Tufts University, where she teaches innovation and entrepreneurship. She graduated cum laude from Georgetown and received a master's degree in energy policy and business from Tufts University. She is a daughter of Kristen K. Westermann of Pompano Beach, Fla., and the late Dr. David J. Kreis Jr. The bride’s mother retired as a lab technician in Port Jefferson, N.Y., for Mather Memorial Hospital. The bride’s father was the founding chief of the division of trauma at Stony Brook University Hospital, where he also created the trauma research laboratory. She is a stepdaughter of John J. Westermann IV of Pompano Beach. He is a novelist and the author of “Exit Wounds” (Soho Press), which was adapted into a movie. The groom, 33, is the editor in chief of Greentech Media, a business publication in Boston that covers global energy trends and climate change. He is the producer and a host of the podcast “The Energy Gang,” which covers global energy trends, environmental issues and climate change. He graduated summa cum laude from Franklin Pierce University in Rindge, N.H. He is a son of Linda A. Lacey and Thomas C. Lacey of Keene, N.H. The groom’s mother is the business development manager in Keene for EVS Metal. His father retired as a forester and real estate broker in Keene. The couple met in 2008 when the bride contacted the groom after listening to “Inside Renewable Energy,” a podcast he was hosting at the time. They began dating in January 2016. And now, Mr. Lacey and Ms. Kreis are producing “Wedded,” a podcast about the wedding-planning process. A version of this article appears in print on October 8, 2017, on Page ST16 of the New York edition with the headline: Sandra Kreis,  Stephen Lacey.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 