Advertisement By CHRIS STANFORDFEB. 26, 2018   (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • The Communist Party has proposed revising China’s Constitution to abolish term limits on the presidency, a move that could allow President Xi Jinping to remain in office indefinitely. It is the boldest move yet by Mr. Xi, who is seeking to strengthen the party’s control and to restore China as a global leader. The Constitution limits Mr. Xi, who became president in 2013, to two five-year terms. We looked at how he came to power. • Government censors rushed to block criticism of the plan, which renewed fears of strongman politics. • Students and parents returned to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., on Sunday for the first time since the mass shooting there that killed 17. Advertisement “It’s like the first day of school,” one student said, “but it’s not normal at all.” Lawmakers on Capitol Hill are also back, after a weeklong recess. They face intense pressure to act on gun control, but, as our reporters note, “If the past is prologue, Congress will do nothing.” Advertisement • Sheriff Scott Israel defended his “amazing leadership” as questions mounted over his department’s response. At least one deputy failed to enter the school while the shooting was in progress. The Supreme Court today rejected a Trump administration request to hear a case on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program even before an appeals court had ruled on it. The program shields from deportation roughly 700,000 people who were brought to the U.S. as children and allows them to work. In September, the  administration announced that it would shut down the program on March 5. But two federal judges ordered major pieces of the program to be maintained while legal challenges move forward. • A House panel released a redacted memo over the weekend that counters Republican claims of abuses by the F.B.I. and the Justice Department in the Russia investigation. Read the memo here. President Trump blocked the release of the Democratic memo two weeks ago, citing national security concerns. • Here are  five takeaways from the document, which details what the Democrats say were inaccurate claims and omissions in an earlier Republican memo. Advertisement • The Winter Games closed in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and the question is now whether signs of a thaw between the two Koreas will last. The South’s president, Moon Jae-in, said today that, while the U.S. and North Korea have indicated a willingness for talks,  they need to soften their stances. We have highlights and photographs from the closing ceremony, and our Olympics team reflected on their favorite moments from the past two weeks. • The U.S. finished with 23 medals, nine of them gold. Here’s the full count. President Trump’s vision dominated at the Conservative Political Action Conference, and, as one woman learned, there was little room for alternative views. • The Weinstein Company will file for bankruptcy after talks about a sale collapsed. The film and TV studio has been struggling since a wave of accusations of sexual misconduct against Harvey Weinstein, a co-owner. • The Supreme Court is to hear a case today that could affect public-sector unions. At issue is whether government employees must pay unions for representing them in collective bargaining. • Balking at “blockchain bros”: Women who have been trying to join the gold rush of virtual currencies are finding a gender divide. • A new round of talks on the North American Free Trade Agreement is among the headlines to watch this week. • U.S. stocks were up on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today. Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Advertisement • Traveling? Here are simple tips to get by if you don’t know the language. • You can weather a turbulent stock market. • Try a meatless meal of Sri Lankan dal with coconut and lime kale. • A new U.N. resolution demanding a cease-fire across Syria appeared to have little effect, as government forces attacked a rebel-held enclave near the capital, Damascus. There were reports on Sunday of a suspected chlorine attack. • After  the deadly school shooting in Florida, a number of companies announced plans to cut ties with the National Rifle Association, ending discount programs for the group’s members. • The authorities in Atlanta announced a $10,000 reward for information about a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention employee who disappeared two weeks ago. • Warren Buffett said in his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders that it had recorded more than $29 billion in gains from the tax overhaul in December. • “Black Panther” may soon join the $1 billion club. The Marvel superhero movie has earned more than $700 million in global ticket sales in 12 days. • Fortified, but still in peril In the years after Hurricane Katrina, more than 350 miles — and $20 billion — of levees, flood walls, gates and pumps were built to encircle New Orleans. Experts say it’s not enough. The article is part of a special report about the ecological crisis facing Louisiana’s coast, the product of a partnership between The Times and NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune of New Orleans. Advertisement For more coverage of climate change, sign up for our newsletter, Climate Fwd:. • Hoping to head off would-be migrants France has set up an outpost in Niger to  screen those seeking asylum. But very few are actually approved, which sends a message to others thinking of migrating: Stay home. Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • Quotation of the day “Xi Jinping is susceptible to making big mistakes because there are now almost no checks or balances. Essentially, he has become emperor for life.” — Willy Lam, the author of a 2015 biography of Mr. Xi, on China’s moves to abolish presidential term limits. • The Times, in other words Here’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. “Was it really that bad?” That’s what Arthur Bicknell asked years after his play, a mystery farce called “Moose Murders,” opened and closed on the same night this month in 1983 — setting a punishing new standard for Broadway flops. “The simple answer,” he conceded to The Times, “is yes.” Reviews  were brutal. Brendan Gill of The New Yorker said it “would insult the intelligence of an audience consisting entirely of amoebas.” Dennis Cunningham of CBS advised, “If your name is Arthur Bicknell, change it.” (In one account, a woman leaving the theater shouted to a police officer, “Arrest this play!”) Here’s the Times review by Frank Rich, who years later would call it “the worst play I’ve ever seen on a Broadway stage.” Advertisement In the years since its ill-fated debut, “Moose Murders” has gained notoriety, if not respect. In 2011, Mr. Bicknell published “Moose Murdered: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love My Broadway Bomb.”) In fact, there have been revivals of “Moose Murders” around the world — and at least one comical twist. In 2007, the Repertory Philippines misidentified the author of the play in posters around Manila. Instead of Mr. Bicknell, it credited The Times’s critic, Mr. Rich. Charles McDermid contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.  Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com. Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 