Advertisement By CHARLES McDERMIDDEC. 10, 2017  Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • Days of protests in Palestinian territories ebbed, but large demonstrations in Beirut and in cities in Indonesia — the world’s most populous Muslim country — railed against President Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. More protests are expected today. Jihadists from Mali to Afghanistan promised to retaliate, but the Islamic State took aim at its rivals and Arab leaders. Our Jerusalem bureau chief described a city braced for more turmoil. “You feel like you’re living in jail here,” one resident told him. “The people are so tense.” _____ • As he ends his first year in office, Donald Trump is redefining the American presidency. In interviews with 60 advisers, associates, friends and members of Congress, our reporters found a man who “views himself less as a titan dominating the world stage than a maligned outsider engaged in a struggle to be taken seriously.” Advertisement Separately, his U.N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, said that women who’ve accused Mr.  Trump of sexual misconduct “should be heard,” a break from the administration’s assertions that the allegations have no merit and should be dismissed. Advertisement And a special election in Alabama on Tuesday has broad implications for American government. _____ • Epic smog in northern India is stirring dissatisfaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The epic smog is also pulling down the economy and, according to a new Unicef report, might be permanently damaging children’s brains. Environmentalists say that Mr. Modi has failed to adequately respond, and that his business-friendly policies have made things worse. “Green concerns are not reflected in India’s growth story,” one conservationist said. “In some cities, we draw in poison with every breath.” _____ • In Indonesia, activist groups are springing up to fight an “epidemic” of street harassment against women. The first step, they say, is exposing the routine instances of groping and catcalling that have long gone unreported. And after watching the “Me, Too” campaign, some women in Afghanistan are speaking out. But the dangers they face when they do are serious. _____ • “This is kind of the new normal.” That was Gov. Jerry Brown’s message after a week of wildfires raced through Southern California. Extreme fire activity, he said, is likely to occur on a regular basis for decades. The state’s major fires this year — from wine country to just shy of the Mexican border — have pushed firefighters to their limits. Advertisement _____ • A reminder: Amid the world’s turmoil is plenty of joy. Here are seven pretty fantastic things that happened recently (including research that shows men should hug more) that prove it isn’t all bad out there. What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • Go-Jek, a $3 billion Indonesian start-up, lets customers call a car or motorbike for a ride — or for takeout, a shopping trip or delivering a present. Uber, U.S. investors and Chinese internet titans are taking notice. • International trade: The World Trade Organization is holding ministerial meetings in Argentina this week under the shadow of American disdain. The E.U. and Japan expect rapid ratification of their deal creating a free trade area that covers more than a quarter of the world’s economy. And Paris is trying to woo Brexit’s business refugees from London. • Trading in bitcoin futures is kicking off on CBOE Global Markets, an exchange based in Chicago. • The Australian stock market will become the world’s first blockchain-based stock exchange, a transition expected by the end of March. • “K-beauty,” or Korean skin care, has fascinated the world in a way one Op-Ed contributor finds comical. (You’ve been had, she says.) •  Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • The Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Norway honored the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons. The group’s leader, Beatrice Fihn, above right, warned that “our mutual destruction is only one impulsive tantrum away.” [The Guardian] • Japan’s defense minister announced plans to acquire medium-range cruise missiles capable of striking North Korea, and Japan’s defense force is beginning two days of missile-tracking drills with the U.S. and South Korea. [Reuters] • A North Korean defector has spent a decade challenging South Korea’s policy of denying citizenship to North Koreans who gained Chinese citizenship to escape their homeland. [The New York Times] Advertisement • Russian fighter jets have flown dangerously close to U.S. warplanes in Syria over the past month in what American officials say are daily Russian violations of an air safety agreement. [The New York Times] • Iraq’s prime minister declared victory over the Islamic State, announcing the end of more than three years of battles to regain control of nearly one-third of the country. [The New York Times] • Saudi Arabia disputed that its crown prince bought a painting of Christ by Leonardo da Vinci for more than $450 million last month. American officials and Arabs familiar with the details say otherwise. [The New York Times] • Cricket officials fear a new fixing epidemic after three international captains reported being approached by match-fixers. [The New York Times] • Australia’s prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, is searching for the creator of a bicycle covered in rainbow-colored crochet that was left at his home. [BBC] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • That run you went on this morning? Great! But you still need to watch your diet and lifestyle. • Recipe of the day: Start the week right with a batch of homemade fried chicken. • How can you hear something with no sound? Our senses don’t operate the way we assume, neuroscientists say, as highlighted by the viral image of an electrical tower jumping rope, above. • Rising incomes have allowed some Chinese retirees to become snowbirds in the country’s south — enjoying a sunny life in ways previous generations never imagined. Advertisement • Finally, our Australia Diary explores the occasional joys of the daily commute. (Shoelaces and an onion have starring roles.) “Greed is good.” Today is the 30th anniversary of the release of the movie “Wall Street.” Michael Douglas won an Oscar for his role as Gordon Gekko, the ruthless corporate raider who takes a young stockbroker named Bud Fox, played by Charlie Sheen, under his wing. The movie was meant as a harsh critique of the excesses of 1980s capitalism — but became wildly popular with actual Wall Street types. (When it came out, our critic suggested that its moralizing was its weak point: “The movie crashes in a heap of platitudes,” Vincent Canby wrote.) The director, Oliver Stone, said that in a twist, many young people told him it inspired them to go work on Wall Street. Even years later, brokers would tell him, “You’re the man!” Mr. Stone discussed the film’s legacy in this 2009 Times video. He said it was “misunderstood by some, because it was about a horrible thing that was going on, about how people would worship money at all costs.” That interview took place as he was preparing to film the sequel, “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,” released in 2010. Our critic called it “a corrective, a parody and a sly act of auto-homage.” Karen Zraick contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Browse past briefings here.  We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 