Advertisement By NATHANIEL POPPERJAN. 22, 2018  Five years ago, I wrote my first article about virtual currencies, documenting the sizable stockpile of Bitcoins that the Winklevoss twins, Cameron and Tyler, had amassed. At the time, I figured Bitcoin would be a flash in the pan, with roughly the life span of pet rocks or Furbys. But neither Bitcoin nor the Winklevii, as they’re known, has withered under the unending stream of skepticism. The value of a single Bitcoin is now up more than 11,000 from when I wrote that first story, and the brothers have become billionaires, at least on paper. I have continued writing about Bitcoin throughout its remarkable rise, but I could have never anticipated the way the technology has broken out over the past year, with everyone from Vladimir Putin to mom-and-pop investors in South Korea looking at how to use and profit from the technology. (Most recently, I wrote about the enormous electricity consumption of the network of computers supporting Bitcoin, which now uses as much energy as some medium-sized countries.) Advertisement These developments have been enough to turn me, over the last year, into essentially a full-time cryptocurrency reporter. It’s safe to say that’s a first for The Times. Advertisement Before this all began, I was covering financial markets and banks from New York. That gave me a grounding to begin understanding this, but Bitcoin has turned into a very different kind of financial market. At the banks, I kept hearing about how they were taking this technology seriously as something that might change their business in the long run. That is because beneath the digital tokens, Bitcoin introduced a new kind of crowdsourced financial infrastructure, known as the blockchain, that allows for the creation of money and financial records that aren’t maintained by any central authority like a bank or a government. Claims about Bitcoin’s longevity differ dramatically. If you listen only to virtual currency aficionados, you would think that digital money is certain to dethrone the dollar as the global reserve currency and kill Wall Street, to boot. I get dozens of emails every day from entrepreneurs who tell me how they are going to use the technology introduced by Bitcoin to revolutionize the music industry, or shipping business, or even democracy itself. Meanwhile, very smart people like Warren Buffett and Joseph Stiglitz have continued to say that the whole thing is just a bubble waiting to burst. How is a single journalist supposed to work through it all? It can feel a bit like being there at the invention of the stock market, but with no certainty that stocks would actually work as promised — and with everything hinging on software that few people understand. Certainly one part of this requires understanding the technical details of how Bitcoin and other digital tokens work. The time I’ve spent grappling with the inner workings of virtual currencies has given me a sense of why so many computer scientists see the Bitcoin network as real technological innovation and not just a token that people buy and sell. I have a good stable of geeks who help walk me through the details when I get confused. And when I go to dinner parties it comes in handy — everyone these days wants to talk about how Bitcoin works and whether it is a bubble. But from that first article about the Winklevoss twins, I have tried to focus, whenever possible, on the real people who are buying and using Bitcoin and other virtual currencies, and what is motivating them. That has taken me to Argentina, where I saw how people are using virtual currencies to escape the inflation their local currency is experiencing. It has also led me to the online black markets, where virtual currencies have made it easier for addicts to buy deadly drugs from China and for criminals to collect ransom payments. It is also the real-world usage that tests whether Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are able to live up to the big promises that they are making. With most virtual currency projects, I’ve found that there are relatively few real-world transactions to back up the big, speculative bets that investors are making. Perhaps most fascinating is how these new currencies draw communities around them. It’s a potent reminder that all money is a social construct: The more people who believe a Bitcoin or dollar will retain its value in a week, the greater the value the currency will have. But these are still early days. The death of Bitcoin has been wrongfully proclaimed many times already. For my part, The Times’s rules against investing in what we write about has allowed me to be equally open to this going up or down. Advertisement Beyond that, these virtual currencies are all living economics experiments, testing how different sorts of incentives create different behaviors. Bitcoin has an elaborate system of carrots and sticks designed to attract followers and to increase the cybersecurity of the Bitcoin network. But these incentives don’t always work as expected. That uncertainty is what makes it so interesting to watch — and to report on. Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter. A version of this article appears in print on January 22, 2018, on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: The View From the Bitcoin Bubble.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 