Advertisement Supported by Letters To the Editor: Re “Russia at Work on U.S. Midterms, Spy Chiefs Warn” (front page, Feb. 14): The continued political and economic success of our democracy depends on a well-founded belief in the integrity of our election system. Therefore, the Russian attempt to undercut our confidence in electoral integrity is an existential threat. Russian efforts will, if left alone, become ever more sophisticated and effective. Unfortunately, President Trump is concerned only about what he thinks the Russians can do for him in what he hopes will be his campaign to hold on to the presidency. If the Republicans are not yet ready to start impeachment proceedings, the least they can do is pass a congressional resolution calling on the president to demand that all Russian electoral interference cease immediately, backed by an order requiring, in the face of noncompliance, the immediate removal of all Russian diplomats from our country. Cyberwarfare against our electoral system is war. Better to recognize that now and act accordingly. It is not time to react militarily, but it is past time to react effectively. Russia must be isolated from the family of nations. DONALD S. COBURNMONTEREY, MASS. To the Editor: Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, says we are under attack from Russia. Maybe I’m old-fashioned, but I thought that when our country comes under attack we retaliate. So far there has been no retaliation that I know of. Even the modest attempts of the Congress to impose sanctions, which really amounted to a slap on the wrist, have been ignored by our president. Of course you don’t want to give away important information to the enemy, but it would be good to know whether we are taking strong steps to not only counter future attacks but also to give the enemy pause before trying again by making the penalty very painful. ORIN HOLLANDER, JAMISON, PA. To the Editor: Russian efforts, through social media platforms, to influence United States elections succeed because of the inability of individuals to evaluate information they receive and the biases of the source. The plethora of “information” now available on multiple media platforms requires the reader to possess the ability to determine what is reliable information. Schools, particularly high schools, need to have courses that teach critical reasoning and how to evaluate sources of information. The landscape has changed, and so must our education system. JUDITH FARRIS BOWMANDORIAN BOWMANCAMBRIDGE, MASS. To the Editor: Dan Coats told the Senate Intelligence Committee that “we expect Russia to continue using propaganda, social media, false-flag personas, sympathetic spokespeople and other means of influence to try to exacerbate social and political fissures in the United States.” The same could be said of the Trump administration. LOU MATZ, STOCKTON, CALIF. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 