Advertisement Supported by Editorial By The Editorial Board By expelling scores of Russians from the United States and 21 other countries, President Trump and allied leaders have imposed the most significant punishment yet on Russia and its leader, Vladimir Putin. It’s a move that is well overdue for Mr. Trump, whose long refusal to criticize Mr. Putin and hesitancy to act against Russia’s malign behavior have raised suspicions that Moscow knows secrets it could use to blackmail the American president. Monday’s development offers some hope that Mr. Trump may finally be forced to deal with the threat that Mr. Putin poses to the United States and its Western allies. Put the emphasis there on “hope.” Mr. Trump will have to go even further to push back effectively against Mr. Putin’s mischief, which runs the gamut from interference in the elections in America and other Western democracies to propelling the wars in Ukraine and Syria. The expulsion orders retaliate specifically for the poisoning of a former Russian spy, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter in Britain, for which the Kremlin has been blamed. On the American side, it includes 12 people identified as Russian intelligence officers at the United Nations in New York and 48 at the Russian Embassy in Washington. Also, the Russian consulate in Seattle will be closed because of concerns that Russians were spying on a nearby submarine base and Boeing manufacturing facilities. Mr. Putin almost certainly will retaliate, continuing a downward spiral in Russian-American relations unheard-of since the Cold War. That will further disrupt the ability of the two nations to work on serious challenges, like ending the war in Syria and defusing a new nuclear arms race. It appears to be getting more difficult for Mr. Trump to remain passive in the face of Russian aggression. On March 15, he imposed sanctions on a series of Russian organizations and individuals for interference in the 2016 presidential election and other “malicious cyberattacks.” Yet, the president still panders to Mr. Putin, even as he intensifies criticism of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, and the former F.B.I. director’s investigation into Trump associates’ web of Russian ties. The most recent example occurred last week when Mr. Trump, who has infrequent calls with the leaders of America’s closest allies, made a point of calling Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his recent fraudulent re-election. Missing from the call was any scolding for the nerve-gas attack on the Russian spy that prompted Monday’s expulsions or any demand that Mr. Putin stop meddling in American elections. Even now, Mr. Trump is distancing himself from the expulsion order issued in his name, underscoring the incoherence in his approach. Rather than being introduced with powerful words from the president, the decision was announced in a White House statement saying the actions “make clear to Russia that its actions have consequences.” The United States and its allies must stay united in condemning Mr. Putin’s nefarious activities and holding him to account. The expulsions show Russia will pay a price for using chemical weapons on allied territory. But Mr. Trump has still not done much to counter Mr. Putin’s most dangerous initiative — meddling in the 2016 election and the coming November midterms. No, it will be impossible to see this administration as taking the threat seriously until Mr. Trump orders, at long last, a comprehensive campaign to repair weaknesses in the American electoral system and prevent tampering in future elections. He should also sanction Russian oligarchs — freezing their assets, barring them from the global banking system, preventing their children from attending Western schools — ensuring that Mr. Putin’s cronies feel America’s reach and use their influence to stop his aggression. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionThe Editorial Board Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 