Advertisement By JOE DRAPEJUNE 3, 2017  CLEVELAND — David Griffin was on a far court, walking through offensive sets with Tyronn Lue, the coach he hired in the middle of last season. On the other side of the gym, LeBron James, the megastar he helped bring back to Ohio, stood in front of news media microphones, expounding on his Cleveland Cavaliers and the collective sharpshooters known as the Golden State Warriors, the two teams that are facing off in the N.B.A. finals for a third consecutive year. Griffin glanced at the news media scrum but had no intention of joining it. Usually known as Griff among agents and fellow N.B.A. executives, he is one of the more voluble and transparent general managers in a league that prefers its wheeler-dealers on the more stoic and sleight-of-hand side. Silence is golden, however, when it is your own contract that is up and the price of remaining the ringmaster of one of the league’s most-watched circuses might be more than the Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert is willing to pay. Does it matter that Griffin was essential to the effort to get James to return to Cleveland and give this sports-mad city its first major sports title of any kind in more than 50 years? Advertisement Some of his peers believe so. Both the Atlanta Hawks and the Orlando Magic recently asked the Cavaliers for permission to speak with Griffin for their top front-office positions. Each was turned down by Cleveland and went on to fill those positions without ever interviewing him. Now, the Milwaukee Bucks are reportedly interested in Griffin grabbing their basketball reins, although they have not yet asked permission to talk to him. Advertisement Gilbert is a hands-on owner who has a history of letting player and executive contracts run out before going to the negotiating table, and Griffin’s contract expires at the end of the month. With the Cavaliers’ payroll now standing at more than $125 million, and with an additional $27 million in luxury taxes to pay, Gilbert has earned the right to spend money at his own pace. Through a spokesman, Griffin declined to be interviewed for this article but soon followed up with a text that read: “I really appreciate the opportunity to reconsider but I am trying desperately to keep a low profile and my quotes being in something about me just makes me uncomfortable. Ownership wouldn’t appreciate either, I am sure.” Well, good luck on trying to hide in plain sight, especially during what fans hope will be an epic N.B.A. finals, even if Game 1 on Thursday was a lopsided victory for the Warriors. Although the result was disheartening for the Cavaliers, there is still time for James, the Babe Ruth (in Griffin’s estimation) of the N.B.A., to figure out a way to challenge an aesthetically dazzling Warriors team led by extraordinary talents bearing names befitting pop stars — Steph, K. D., Draymond and Klay. Meanwhile, as Gilbert decides whether Griffin is worth keeping, and at what price, there is little doubt that taking stock of his achievements as the chief architect of the Cavaliers is forever complicated by the overwhelming influence James has in the front office and beyond. In fact, Griffin’s tenure throughout these past three finals runs by James and his Cavaliers teammates has been characterized by whispers that he is merely James’s personal shopper, and then countered by assertions that he is, indeed, a gifted judge of basketball talent. So take your pick. “It’s hard to get the credit that you deserve when you have a star like LeBron because of his dominance on the floor and, probably more important, off it,” said the longtime sports executive Jerry Colangelo, who hired Griffin as an intern in the media department back when he owned the Phoenix Suns. “It overshadows everything, but that is the reality. You’re damned if you do, and damned if you don’t.” It was not necessarily what Griffin signed on for when he was named the Cavaliers’ general manager in May 2014 after four years as the team’s vice president for basketball operations. Advertisement When, a month later, James decided to return to the state where he was raised and to the Cleveland franchise with which he started his professional career, Griffin was forced to pivot quickly. Instead of continuing his efforts to build a team gradually around point guard Kyrie Irving, he now needed to bring in at least one top player and some decent spare parts to meet James’s wishes that the Cavaliers become immediately competitive. So Griffin traded Andrew Wiggins, that year’s overall No. 1 pick, and two other players to the Minnesota Timberwolves in a three-way deal for Kevin Love, the All-Star forward. He signed the bench players James Jones and Mike Miller, who were with James in Miami when he won two titles there. In midseason, Griffin added J. R. Smith, Iman Shumpert and Timofey Mozgov. James lobbied for the streak-shooting Smith, while Griffin believed Shumpert and Mozgov would help shore up the defense. Griffin has gracefully referred to James as an “amazing partner” in making his personnel decisions for the Cavaliers. But he has also acknowledged that James’s is a voice that must be heard when he is contemplating what roster moves to make. And sometimes it is a loud voice. Many of Griffin’s peers say that James’s periodic public comments about the Cavaliers’ roster only serve to make his general manager’s job more difficult, but that Griffin has managed to succeed, anyway. “LeBron can say he wants this, this and that, but somebody has to go out and do the work to get them,” said one rival team executive who did not want to be publicly identified talking about another club. “Acquiring players is hard. You only have so many resources, there’s cap limits, and you’ve got to know the right players to get. The guy has done a great job.” Griffin got his start in the N.B.A. in 1993, when he went to work for his hometown Phoenix Suns while still a student at Arizona State. He rose from a $25-a-game media-operations intern to a role in the video department and then moved into scouting and eventually became the senior vice president for basketball operations.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Throughout his 17 years, the Suns were perennial contenders in the Western Conference and twice lost in the conference finals, to Dallas and San Antonio. Griffin soaked in the knowledge of basketball lifers like Cotton Fitzsimmons, Dick Van Arsdale and Bryan Colangelo — Jerry’s son and then the team’s general manager. Jerry Colangelo recognizes two tenets that Griffin has transplanted to Cleveland from Phoenix: How a player fits into a team is more important than name recognition. And you can never have too many shooters. “I think he saw in Phoenix our ability to adjust and move in the other direction when opportunities arose,” Colangelo said. “He’s an excellent judge of talent. He has the guts to do things others won’t do.” Advertisement On the guts front, Griffin fired Coach David Blatt in midseason last year despite the fact that the Cavaliers had a conference-best 30-11 record at the time. The previous year, Blatt’s first, the Cavaliers won the Eastern Conference before losing in six games to Golden State in the finals with a team that was missing key players. It was Gilbert, not Griffin, who wanted to hire Blatt, a coaching savant with championship rings from a host of international datelines like Israel and Russia. But it was Griffin who persuaded Blatt to hire Lue as his top assistant. Lue had been Griffin’s initial choice to be the head coach, and when he fired Blatt, he gave Lue the top job, emphasizing that he was the next head coach and not an interim one. Griffin then stated that he did not take a poll of the locker room before making the coaching changes, nor did he care what anyone outside the organization thought. “Sometimes you can win games in this league in the regular season and get worse,” Griffin said. “I think we were regressing over a period of time.” As for the quest to find more shooters, Griffin pulled off a midseason trade last year for the big man Channing Frye, who can hit from the outside. In January, he added Kyle Korver, one of the best 3-point shooters in the history of the league, in exchange for Mike Dunleavy, Mo Williams, cash and a protected future first-round draft pick. When James worried publicly that the Cavaliers needed a veteran point guard to back up Irving, Griffin signed the three-time All-Star Deron Williams in February after he was waived by the Dallas Mavericks. Like Korver and the others before him, Williams was a veteran without an inflated ego who was brought in to give Cleveland another shot at a championship. “Griff has got Korver, Shumpert and J. R. Smith for nothing or very little,” said Happy Walters, the agent for Shumpert, who got to know Griffin in Phoenix while representing Amar’e Stoudemire. “I think he’s done a very good job of balancing egos and putting a championship-caliber team together. He’s definitely not anyone’s personal shopper. He will be highly sought after if he is not in Cleveland.” Advertisement Neither Gilbert nor Griffin has tipped his hand on what the owner is willing to pay or the general manager believes he deserves, or if they are willing to part ways. The starting point for an executive with Griffin’s level of success is about $7 million annually. James, too, has been largely mute on the poker game involving Gilbert and Griffin. When James, who, depending on the telling, either calls the Cavaliers’ personnel shots or benefits from them, was asked about his general manager’s contributions to the team’s success, his response was succinct. “He’s done a great job putting the pieces together to win a championship,” James said, “and that’s all you can ask for.” A version of this article appears in print on June 4, 2017, on Page SP4 of the New York edition with the headline: Cavaliers’ Architect Quietly Faces the Unknown.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 