Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30, 2018, 2:57 A.M. E.D.T.  SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man in Sacramento (all times local): 2:45 a.m. The brother of an unarmed black man killed by police is helping diffuse tension in California's capital city by asking protesters not to keep disrupting a downtown NBA arena. Protesters heeded the calls by Stevante Clark and instead blocked cars on downtown streets nearby the funeral of the victim. They are calling for justice for Stephon Clark, who was killed March 18 by police. The Sacramento Kings-Indiana Pacers game went off without disruption. __ 7:30 p.m. The Sacramento Kings-Indiana Pacers game has tipped off without disruption from protesters outside the downtown arena. Police in riot gear stood outside the arena in case protesters attempted to block fans from entering as they had for two games prior. The marchers were gathered in protest of the police shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark last week. Clark's brother, Stevante Clark, had implored protesters not to block the arena. They kept their Thursday march to downtown streets several blocks away, stopping traffic for a few hours during rush hour. Advertisement The Kings have been supportive of Clark's family, offering to set up an education fund for his two children and partnering with Black Lives Matter Sacramento to bring resources to Sacramento's black community. Advertisement __ 6 p.m. Protesters have again blocked streets in downtown Sacramento calling for justice following the police shooting of an unarmed black man. They are protesting the March 18 shooting of Stephon Clark. Two police officers responding to a call of someone breaking car windows say they thought he was holding a gun when they shot him, but it was a cellphone. On Thursday, several demonstrators approached a row of police on bicycles as one man held up a cellphone and asked, "Is this a gun?" Black Lives Matter Sacramento has organized three days of protests beginning at the district attorney's office downtown. The protests have largely remained peaceful. Several blocks away, fans are entering the Golden 1 Center through heavy security ahead of the Sacramento Kings-Indiana Pacers game. Protests have blocked fans from entering at two previous games. ___ 2:30 p.m. Metal detectors and 6-foot tall (1.8 meter) fencing are set up outside the Golden 1 Center as part of dramatically increased security measures prior to tonight's Sacramento Kings-Indiana Pacers game. Protests over the shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark have blocked thousands of fans from entering the arena during the past two games. The police and the Kings say they are committed to making sure fans can enter Thursday's game. Advertisement Fencing is snaked around and blocking off some stairs to an outdoor plaza surrounding the arena in downtown Sacramento and workers are installing barricades in some areas. Clark's brother, Stevante, told an ABC10 reporter that protesters should not block the Kings arena. The protests, which have remained mostly peaceful, have largely been confined to downtown blocks between the arena and the district attorney's office. The Kings' arena is the focal point of a revitalization effort in Sacramento's downtown, which has struggled economically and has a large homeless population. ___ 1:35 p.m. Family members of people killed by police throughout California held a demonstration in Compton to denounce Stephon Clark's death in Sacramento and to call on lawmakers for more transparency in use-of-force investigations. The group demonstrated Thursday outside the state's Racial and Identity Profiling Board meeting. They chanted for justice and held signs calling on police to stop racial profiling. Clark was shot in his grandparents' backyard by officers responding to a nighttime call of someone breaking car windows. Cephus Johnson, whose nephew Oscar Grant was killed by a Bay Area Rapid Transit officer in 2009, says Clark's death is helping bring more awareness to excessive force against minorities and that "it has to stop." The officer who killed Grant was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and sentenced to two years in prison. Advertisement ___ 12:57 p.m. Final prayers have been said at the funeral for an unarmed black man who was fatally shot by Sacramento police. Speakers at Thursday's service called for justice for 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was shot in his grandparents' backyard by officers responding to a nighttime call of someone breaking car windows. The Rev. Al Sharpton told mourners that Clark "woke up the nation." Clark's casket is being taken from Bayside of South Sacramento church for burial. ___ 12:27 p.m. The Rev. Al Sharpton has told mourners that an unarmed black man fatally shot by Sacramento police should be alive today. Sharpton spoke Thursday at the funeral for 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was shot by police responding to a nighttime report of a man breaking car windows. Sharpton says young black men have been killed all over the country and it's time to "stop this madness." Sharpton addressed mourners after Clark's brother, Stevante, made an emotional statement calling for community resources and declaring Stephon's name won't be forgotten.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ___ 12:20 p.m. Emotion is gripping mourners at the funeral for an unarmed black man who was fatally shot by Sacramento police. People were holding each other and wiping tears Thursday in front of the casket holding 22-year-old Stephon Clark at Bayside of South Sacramento church. Advertisement Clark's 7-year-old sister, Cai'lyn, has performed with a "praise dance" team, and the Rev. Al Sharpton is scheduled to deliver the eulogy. ___ 11:55 a.m. A funeral has begun for an unarmed black man who was fatally shot by Sacramento police. Opening prayers were said Thursday after mourners were asked to applaud the life of 22-year-old Stephon Clark. The Rev. Al Sharpton is scheduled to deliver the eulogy for Clark at Bayside of South Sacramento church. In addition to Clark's family, mourners include Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg and retired NBA player Matt Barnes. ___ 11:25 a.m. The family of an unarmed black man who was fatally shot by Sacramento police has arrived at a church for his funeral. At least two family members are wearing red and black T-shirts honoring Stephon Clark. The Rev. Al Sharpton is scheduled to speak at Thursday's funeral for the 22-year-old Clark at the Bayside of South Sacramento church. Clark's wooden, closed casket is positioned front and center at the church and topped with a red and green floral display. City officials are bracing for more protests. ___ 10:55 a.m. Mourners are arriving for the funeral of an unarmed black man who was fatally shot by Sacramento police responding at night to reports of someone breaking car windows. Advertisement The Rev. Al Sharpton is scheduled to speak at Thursday's funeral for 22-year-old Stephon Clark at the Bayside of South Sacramento church. City officials are bracing for more protests. Clark's wooden, closed casket is positioned front and center at the church and topped with a red and green floral display. A red ribbon using Clark's nickname says, "We Love You Big Poppa." A white heart floral display has a red ribbon saying "Rest in Power" while another says "#Stephon Clark." The church has seating for about 360 people and there's an overflow room for 150 more. ___ 9:45 a.m. The brother of an unarmed black man fatally shot by police in Sacramento has issued an apology to Mayor Darrell Steinberg for disrupting a City Council meeting. Stevante Clark told TV station ABC10 (KXTV) that the mayor deserves respect. During Tuesday night's council meeting, Clark jumped onto a desk in front of the mayor and led chants. Clark also told the station he is grateful for protests over the killing of his brother Stephon but does not support demonstrations that block fans from entering the arena where the NBA's Sacramento Kings play their games. The Kings have shown support for Stephon Clark's family, including creating an education fund for his children and partnering with Black Lives Matter and community leaders seeking to improve Sacramento's black community. Stephon Clark's funeral is scheduled Thursday. ___ 8:05 a.m. The Sacramento Kings basketball team says it is partnering with Black Lives Matter and is creating an education fund for the children of Stephon Clark, an unarmed black man fatally shot by police in California's capital city. Advertisement The statement posted on the Kings' website follows protests over the killing that have twice blocked fans from entering Golden 1 Center, the NBA team's downtown arena. The Kings also say they are partnering with a group of local leaders called "Build. Black. Coalition." to support what it terms "transformational change" for black communities in Sacramento. Clarks' funeral is scheduled Thursday. The Rev. Al Sharpton will deliver a eulogy. ___ 11:15 p.m. A funeral will be held today for a 22-year-old unarmed black man killed by police in California's capital city, which is on edge after days of unrest. The Rev. Al Sharpton plans to give the eulogy for Stephon Clark at Thursday's funeral at Bayside of South Sacramento church. Some mourners are predicting increased unrest beyond the unruly but mostly nonviolent protests that have disrupted traffic and two professional basketball games since the March 18 shooting. Family members and authorities are calling for calm. Two Sacramento police officers who were responding to a report of someone breaking car windows fatally shot Clark in his grandparents' backyard. Police say they thought Clark was holding a gun. He was found with a cellphone. Some have called for the officers to face criminal charges. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 